<!-- Author: Vendor procured --> <!-- Description: Post procurement, agency information update -->

# Overview

## System Owner

Waymo

## Dates

December 2018

## Feedback & Communication

Phone number: (480) 751 - 7188E-mail: contact@waymo.com

## Other Resources

In-mail via website: https://support.google.com/waymo/contact/feedback?p=waymo_email_contact_form&visit_id=638413804634996906-3396169416&rd=1


# Performance

## Goal of Reinforcement

Through using a Waymo Driver, passengers are able to enjoy a safer mode of transportation. With the autonomous Waymo Driver high-severity collisions are able to be avoided, and passengers are able to experience a statistically safer ride than they would with a human driver.

## Defined Performance Metrics

7 million + miles of rider-only drivingOver 700,000 ride-hailing trips with public riders and no human driverOver 10 years of driver experience6.8 times lower crash rate2.3 times lower police-reported crash rate

## Known Failure Modes

May 2021: NHTSA reported that Waymo had the highest number of crashes amongst automated driving systems.Other vehicles assessed: Cruise, Transdev, Alternative Services, General Motors, Zoox, Tesla[Link](https://www.govtech.com/transportation/how-many-waymo-cruise-driverless-cars-have-crashed#:~:text=The%20data%2C%20 which%20was%20 reported,equipped%20with%20automated%20driving%20systems)May 2023: Waymo car killed small dog. Although there was a test-driver in the front seat of the Waymo vehicle, the company ruled the event unavoidable. It was stated the Waymo vehicle did identify the dog but could not avoid contact. [Link](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2023/jun/07/waymo-car-kills-dog-self-driving-robotaxi-san-francisco#:~:text=Self%2Ddriving%20Waymo%20car%20kills%20dog%20amid%20increasing%20concern%20over%20robotaxis,-This%20article%20is&text=A%20Waymo%20self%2Ddriving%20car,the%20company's%20driverless%20taxi%20service)July 2023: Waymo vehicle attempts to avoid hitting a branch; results in 3 car pile upAugust 2023: Waymo vehicle starts to proceed forward but then slows down, resulting in the Waymo vehicle being rear-ended by another SUVOctober 2023: Waymo vehicle detects a speeding vehicle from behind, tries to avoid vehicle by speeding up, results in Waymo being hit from behind due to irregular acceleration[Link](https://arstechnica.com/cars/2023/12/human-drivers-crash-a-lot-more-than-waymos-software-data-shows/)



# Responsibilities

## Reporting Cadence

Annual


## Update Triggers

Not available to the public

## Oversight Metrics

Only 21% Waymo crashes have resulted in filed police reports87.5% of human-driven car accidents result in police reportsVehicle disengagement: An autonomous car with a human driver / occupant, enters a situation where it is not confident in what to do, so it turns over control to the human[Link](https://waymo.com/blog/2019/02/an-update-on-waymo-disengagements-in/?hl=ru)[Link](https://thelastdriverlicenseholder.com/2023/02/17/2022-disengagement-report-from-california/)

## Legacy System(s)

Software:   Present: Waymo One (2018)  Previous: 2017 - Waymo earlier rider programHardware:  Present: Jaguar I-PACE (2023)  Previous:    2017: Chrysler Pacifica    2015: Firefly    2009: Toyota Prius

## Stakeholders

United States Department of Transportation (USDOT)National Roadway Safety Strategy (NRSS)National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA)PedestriansCurrent Cities: Phoenix, Arizona; San Francisco, CaliforniaInvolved agencies: LIDAR Technology, Uber, Jaguar, Google

## Explainability & Transparency

Currently Waymo does not have a ‘tutorial’ in place for new users. Upon using the application users are introduced to a platform similar to that of Uber or Lyft. Upon opening the application users are able to see a map with a margin to display where Waymo is available, but this information is only inferred with no initial explanation provided to users in the application. When selecting where you would like a ride the Waymo app allows you to input your desired destination. Unlike other ride-hailing services, user location is not automatically input. When a user is out of the range of Waymo (pickup and drop-off), the app simply grays out the users starting point, and does not allow them to select the point of pickup or drop-off with no explanation provided to inform the user of why they cannot be picked up from the intended location. 

## Recourse

In the event a user needs help with the Waymo application there are four icons toward the bottom of the page, with one of them being entitled ‘support’ with a question mark. Users are then able to select from a list of available articles and points of contact in the event the user needs help.


# Implementation

## Reward Details

[Link to Report](https://storage.googleapis.com/waymo-uploads/files/documents/safety/Waymo%20Safety%20Case%20Approach.pdf)Architectural: Those associated with potential sources of harm inherently embedded within the platform because of architectural choices.Example: undesired presence of blindspots, stemming from architectural choices related to sensors’ typology and placementBehavioral: Those associated with potential sources of harm resulting from the ADS’s displayed driving behavior, whether intended or unintended/unforeseenExample: undesired degree of proximity to surrounding road users.In-service operational: Those associated with potential sources of harm resulting from the fact that the ADS operates in a complex ecosystem, and that do not belong to the other two categories. ○ Example: Improper securing of cargo or undesired access to the vehicle from a malicious actor. Ongoing (rather than one-time) assessments of risks and readiness


## Environment Details

Real world settingSimulation setting for offline evaluation


## Measurement Details

Miles DrivenNumber of RidesCrashesCrash Reports


## Algorithmic Details

TPUs and TensorFlow ecosystem via Google’s cloud computing platforms


## Data Flow

Sensor Data: LIDAR sensors, Cameras, Camera and LIDAR sensor synchronization, projections, and calibrationsTracked objects: Vehicles, pedestrians, cyclists, and signs


## Limitations

Unexpected occurrences that go against natural schemas (refer to failure modes section)


## Engineering Tricks

Not available to the public




# Evaluation

## Evaluation Environment

Real-world driving settingScenario 1: Autonomous vehicle w/human driver no human passengerScenario 2: Autonomous vehicle no human passenger or human driverScenario 3: Autonomous vehicle with human passenger


## Offline Evaluations

Simulation setting: While Waymo vehicles are offline (offroad) vehicles partake in simulations of the same real-world drives that the Waymo vehicle endures when on the road in their evaluation environment.Metrics: Comfort, Braking speed, Smoother drives


## Evaluation Validity

Not available to the public


## Performance standards

Miles Driven, Number of Rides, Crashes, Crash Reports




# Maintenance

## Comments on Performance

The intended timeframe for revisiting the reward report. How was this decision reached and motivated?


## Comments on User Feedback

Specific events (projected or historic) significant enough to warrant revisiting this report, beyond the cadence outlined above. Example triggers include a defined stakeholder group empowered to demand a system audit, or a specific metric (either of performance or oversight) that falls outside a defined threshold of critical safety.


## Recommendations

Descriptions of updates and lessons learned from observing and maintaining the deployed system. This includes when the updates were made and what motivated them in light of previous reports. The changelog comprises the central difference between reward reports and other forms of machine learning documentation, as it directly reflects their intrinsically dynamic nature.

## Changelog

Descriptions of updates and lessons learned from observing and maintaining the deployed system. This includes when the updates were made and what motivated them in light of previous reports. The changelog comprises the central difference between reward reports and other forms of machine learning documentation, as it directly reflects their intrinsically dynamic nature.


