<!-- Author: Waymo Engineer  --> <!-- Description: Initial information transfer to the vendor -->

# Overview

## System Owner

This may be the designer deploying the system, a larger agency or body, or some combination of the two. The entity completing the report should also be indicated.


## Dates

The known or intended timespan over which this reward function & optimization is active.


## Feedback & Communication

Contact information for the designer, team, or larger agency responsible for system deployment.


## Other Resources

Where can users or stakeholders find more information about this system? Is this system based on one or more research papers?




# Performance

## Goal of Reinforcement

Through using a Waymo Driver, passengers are able to enjoy a safer mode of transportation. With the autonomous Waymo Driver high-severity collisions are able to be avoided, and passengers are able to experience a statistically safer ride than they would with a human driver.

## Defined Performance Metrics

7 million + miles of rider-only drivingOver 700,000 ride-hailing trips with public riders and no human driverOver 10 years of driver experience6.8 times lower crash rate2.3 times lower police-reported crash rate

## Known Failure Modes

May 2021: NHTSA reported that Waymo had the highest number of crashes amongst automated driving systems.Other vehicles assessed: Cruise, Transdev, Alternative Services, General Motors, Zoox, Tesla[Link](https://www.govtech.com/transportation/how-many-waymo-cruise-driverless-cars-have-crashed#:~:text=The%20data%2C%20 which%20was%20 reported,equipped%20with%20automated%20driving%20systems)May 2023: Waymo car killed small dog. Although there was a test-driver in the front seat of the Waymo vehicle, the company ruled the event unavoidable. It was stated the Waymo vehicle did identify the dog but could not avoid contact. [Link](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2023/jun/07/waymo-car-kills-dog-self-driving-robotaxi-san-francisco#:~:text=Self%2Ddriving%20Waymo%20car%20kills%20dog%20amid%20increasing%20concern%20over%20robotaxis,-This%20article%20is&text=A%20Waymo%20self%2Ddriving%20car,the%20company's%20driverless%20taxi%20service)July 2023: Waymo vehicle attempts to avoid hitting a branch; results in 3 car pile upAugust 2023: Waymo vehicle starts to proceed forward but then slows down, resulting in the Waymo vehicle being rear-ended by another SUVOctober 2023: Waymo vehicle detects a speeding vehicle from behind, tries to avoid vehicle by speeding up, results in Waymo being hit from behind due to irregular acceleration[Link](https://arstechnica.com/cars/2023/12/human-drivers-crash-a-lot-more-than-waymos-software-data-shows/)


# Responsibilities

## Reporting Cadence

What other agency or controlling entity roles, if any, are intended to be subsumed by the system? How may these roles change following system deployment?


## Update Triggers

What other interests are implicated in the design specification or system deployment, beyond the designer? What role will these interests play in subsequent report documentation? What other entities, if any, does the deployed system interface with whose interests are not intended to be in scope?


## Oversight Metrics

Does the system offer explanations of its decisions or actions? What is the purpose of these explanations? To what extent is the policy transparent, i.e. can decisions or actions be understood in terms of meaningful intermediate quantities?


## Legacy System(s)

Can stakeholders or users contest the decisions or actions of the system? What processes, technical or otherwise, are in place to handle this?



## Stakeholders

What other interests are implicated in the design specification or system deployment, beyond the designer? What role will these interests play in subsequent report documentation? What other entities, if any, does the deployed system interface with whose interests are not intended to be in scope?

## Explainability & Transparency

Does the system offer explanations of its decisions or actions? What is the purpose of these explanations? To what extent is the policy transparent, i.e. can decisions or actions be understood in terms of meaningful intermediate quantities?

## Recourse

Can stakeholders or users contest the decisions or actions of the system? What processes, technical or otherwise, are in place to handle this?


# Implementation

## Reward Details

[Link to Report](https://storage.googleapis.com/waymo-uploads/files/documents/safety/Waymo%20Safety%20Case%20Approach.pdf)Architectural: Those associated with potential sources of harm inherently embedded within the platform because of architectural choices.Example: undesired presence of blindspots, stemming from architectural choices related to sensors’ typology and placementBehavioral: Those associated with potential sources of harm resulting from the ADS’s displayed driving behavior, whether intended or unintended/unforeseenExample: undesired degree of proximity to surrounding road users.In-service operational: Those associated with potential sources of harm resulting from the fact that the ADS operates in a complex ecosystem, and that do not belong to the other two categories. ○ Example: Improper securing of cargo or undesired access to the vehicle from a malicious actor. Ongoing (rather than one-time) assessments of risks and readiness

## Environment Details

Real world settingSimulation setting for offline evaluation

## Measurement Details

Miles DrivenNumber of RidesCrashesCrash Reports

## Algorithmic Details

TPUs and TensorFlow ecosystem via Google’s cloud computing platforms

## Data Flow

Sensor Data: LIDAR sensors, Cameras, Camera and LIDAR sensor synchronization, projections, and calibrationsTracked objects: Vehicles, pedestrians, cyclists, and signs

## Limitations

Unexpected occurrences that go against natural schemas (refer to failure modes section)

## Engineering Tricks

Not available to the public


# Evaluation

## Evaluation Environment

Real-world driving settingScenario 1: Autonomous vehicle w/human driver no human passengerScenario 2: Autonomous vehicle no human passenger or human driverScenario 3: Autonomous vehicle with human passenger

## Offline Evaluations

Simulation setting: While Waymo vehicles are offline (offroad) vehicles partake in simulations of the same real-world drives that the Waymo vehicle endures when on the road in their evaluation environment.Metrics: Comfort, Braking speed, Smoother drives

## Evaluation Validity

Not available to the public

## Performance standards

Miles Driven, Number of Rides, Crashes, Crash Reports


# Maintenance

## Comments on Performance

The intended timeframe for revisiting the reward report. How was this decision reached and motivated?


## Comments on User Feedback

Specific events (projected or historic) significant enough to warrant revisiting this report, beyond the cadence outlined above. Example triggers include a defined stakeholder group empowered to demand a system audit, or a specific metric (either of performance or oversight) that falls outside a defined threshold of critical safety.


## Recommendations

Descriptions of updates and lessons learned from observing and maintaining the deployed system. This includes when the updates were made and what motivated them in light of previous reports. The changelog comprises the central difference between reward reports and other forms of machine learning documentation, as it directly reflects their intrinsically dynamic nature.

## Changelog

Descriptions of updates and lessons learned from observing and maintaining the deployed system. This includes when the updates were made and what motivated them in light of previous reports. The changelog comprises the central difference between reward reports and other forms of machine learning documentation, as it directly reflects their intrinsically dynamic nature.


