<!-- Author: Builder Update --> <!-- Description: Added to performance metric -->

# Overview

## System Owner

MyCity Chatbox

## Dates

March 2023

## Feedback & Communication

Phone number:Call 311(212) NEW - YORK (212) 639 - 9675

## Other Resources

[In-mail via website](https://mycity.nyc.gov/s/contact-us?language=en_US&LanguageCode=en_US)[Feedback](https://www.nyc.gov/assets/home/html/chatbot/feedback.html)


# Performance

## Goal of Reinforcement

MyCity has launched an AI chatbot that focuses on business services. With this new tool, you can quickly find information on many of the City's business services and converse with the City's first artificial intelligence-driven chatbot.

## Defined Performance Metrics

Total interactionsAverage chat durationGoal completion rateMissed utterancesHuman takeover rateCustomer satisfaction scoreRetention rateInformation accuracy: The Chatbot aims to provide accurate information to users. As the technology matures, the Chatbot will offer improved information accuracy.Number of languages: The Chatbot is continuously being developed to increase the number of languages it can support, allowing it to serve a wider range of users.User feedback: Feedback from users is valuable in improving the Chatbot's performance. Users are encouraged to provide feedback through the Feedback form to help enhance the Chatbot's capabilities.Continuous improvement: The Chatbot is in beta and will continue to evolve and improve over time. The goal is to enhance its functionality and ensure it meets the needs of visitors to the MyCity portal.

## Known Failure Modes

Not being used by the intended userNot being used within New York CityCouncilwoman Gutierrez: October | 2023: Councilwoman Gutierrez states that it is necessary to “ensure that the City’s use of AI is transparent, accurate, and unbiased and avoids disparate impacts,” amid hesitation about New York City’s implementation of the MyCity chatbot[Link 1](https://www.wired.com/story/us-failed-to-pass-ai-regulation-new-york-city-stepping-up/)[Link 2](https://cities-today.com/new-york-sets-out-an-action-plan-on-artificial-intelligence/)Providing slightly off responses: “As a beta version, the MyCity Chatbot may occasionally provide responses that are not completely accurate or relevant. This is because the technology is still being tested and improved.”Inappropriate responses: “The MyCity Chatbot may sometimes provide responses that are considered weird, incorrect, or inappropriate. This is also due to the beta nature of the chatbot, and feedback is encouraged to improve its performance.”Technical issues: “Users may encounter technical issues while using the MyCity Chatbot. If you experience any technical problems, you can report them on the Contact Us page of the MyCity Business site.”


# Responsibilities

## Reporting Cadence

Quarterly

## Update Triggers

Not available to the public

## Oversight Metrics

Microsoft's Azure AI technology

## Legacy System(s)

Software:Microsoft's Azure AI technologyOpenAI's ChatGPT chatbot frameworkHardware: N/A

## Stakeholders

The City of New YorkEric Adams (New York Mayor)New York City CitizensInvolved agencies:   NYC Department of Small Business Services (SBS)   Microsoft   Open AI

## Explainability & Transparency

Inference explainability:   The chatbot is capable of answering unique questions and providing great detail related to most questions.   In the event the chatbot is given a question out of its limits, it appears that it is only capable of answering predetermined questions that the system generates.   On the other hand when asked certain questions the chatbot can lean on the side of over-explaining and not directly answering the intended question.   The chatbot is also capable of answering most questions about itself.Transparency: An integrated safety system provides protection from undesirable inputs and outputs and monitors for misuse. 

## Recourse

When it comes to some specific questions, that chatbot struggles to come up with unique answers and in the event it can not come up with an answer it will respond by saying:“I'm sorry, but I don't have information on that. My knowledge is currently limited to MyCity general information and Business site content related to opening or operating a business in New York City.”“I am unable to provide assistance or guidance on your specific inquiry.  However, I am available to help with any other questions related to legal and legitimate business or government operations.”


# Implementation

## Reward Details

[Reward Details](https://www.govtech.com/artificial-intelligence/nyc-releases-ai-action-plan-business-focused-ai-chatbot)“As a safety measure, the city ensured that with the chatbot, “any information that went into it was containerized, so that no one else would get access to it”

## Environment Details

Online, accessible via website

## Measurement Details

Total interactionsAverage chat durationGoal completion rateMissed utterancesHuman takeover rateCustomer satisfaction scoreRetention rate

## Algorithmic Details

Microsoft's Azure AI technology and OpenAI's ChatGPT chatbot framework.

## Data Flow

Microsoft Azure AI technology: Apache spark clustersOpen AI: Public data repositories, Social media, Private data collections

## Limitations

Not capable of generating answers that do not coincide with predetermined routesOnly pulls information from resources that have been deemed trusted by the NYC Department of Small Business Services.

## Engineering Tricks

Not available to the public


# Evaluation

## Evaluation Environment

Online

## Offline Evaluations

N/A

## Evaluation Validity

Designed to provide information based on trained knowledge, based on the latest updates.Does not have personal beliefs or intentions.Capable of providing information that is both true and false.Users still should cross-check information, by providing their own Google search through reputable resources.

## Performance standards

Total interactionsAverage chat durationGoal completion rateMissed utterancesHuman takeover rateCustomer satisfaction scoreRetention rate


# Maintenance

## Comments on Performance

What shifts in metrics seem most significant?

## Comments on User Feedback

What feedback is concerning or surprising?

## Recommendations

What adjustments must be made, if any, to ensure success? To whom are these recommendations made? How will these adjustments be implemented?

## Changelog

Descriptions of updates and lessons learned from observing and maintaining the deployed system. This includes when the updates were made and what motivated them in light of previous reports. The changelog comprises the central difference between reward reports and other forms of machine learning documentation, as it directly reflects their intrinsically dynamic nature.


