<!-- Author: MyCity Chatbot Engineer --> <!-- Description: Information hand-off to NYC -->

# Overview

## System Owner

This may be the designer deploying the system, a larger agency or body, or some combination of the two. The entity completing the report should also be indicated.

## Dates

The known or intended timespan over which this reward function & optimization is active.

## Feedback & Communication

Contact information for the designer, team, or larger agency responsible for system deployment.

## Other Resources

Where can users or stakeholders find more information about this system? Is this system based on one or more research papers?


# Performance

## Goal of Reinforcement

MyCity has launched an AI chatbot that focuses on business services. With this new tool, you can quickly find information on many of the City's business services and converse with the City's first artificial intelligence-driven chatbot.

## Defined Performance Metrics

Total interactionsAverage chat durationGoal completion rateMissed utterancesHuman takeover rateCustomer satisfaction scoreRetention rate

## Known Failure Modes

Not being used by the intended userNot being used within New York CityCouncilwoman Gutierrez:October | 2023: Councilwoman Gutierrez states that it is necessary to “ensure that the City’s use of AI is transparent, accurate, and unbiased and avoids disparate impacts,” amid hesitation about New York City’s implementation of the MyCity chatbot[Link 1](https://www.wired.com/story/us-failed-to-pass-ai-regulation-new-york-city-stepping-up/)[Link 2](https://cities-today.com/new-york-sets-out-an-action-plan-on-artificial-intelligence/)Providing slightly off responses: “As a beta version, the MyCity Chatbot may occasionally provide responses that are not completely accurate or relevant. This is because the technology is still being tested and improved.”Inappropriate responses: “The MyCity Chatbot may sometimes provide responses that are considered weird, incorrect, or inappropriate. This is also due to the beta nature of the chatbot, and feedback is encouraged to improve its performance.”Technical issues: “Users may encounter technical issues while using the MyCity Chatbot. If you experience any technical problems, you can report them on the Contact Us page of the MyCity Business site.”


# Responsibilities

## Reporting Cadence

The intended timeframe for revisiting the reward report. How was this decision reached and motivated?

## Update Triggers

Specific events (projected or historic) significant enough to warrant revisiting this report, beyond the cadence outlined above. Example triggers include a defined stakeholder group empowered to demand a system audit, or a specific metric (either of performance or oversight) that falls outside a defined threshold of critical safety.

## Oversight Metrics

Are there any additional metrics not included in the reward signal but relevant for vendor or system oversight (e.g. performance differences across demographic groups)? Why aren't they part of the reward signal, and why must they be monitored?

## Legacy System(s)

What other agency or controlling entity roles, if any, are intended to be subsumed by the system? How may these roles change following system deployment?

## Stakeholders

What other interests are implicated in the design specification or system deployment, beyond the designer? What role will these interests play in subsequent report documentation? What other entities, if any, does the deployed system interface with whose interests are not intended to be in scope?

## Explainability & Transparency

Does the system offer explanations of its decisions or actions? What is the purpose of these explanations? To what extent is the policy transparent, i.e. can decisions or actions be understood in terms of meaningful intermediate quantities?

## Recourse

Can stakeholders or users contest the decisions or actions of the system? What processes, technical or otherwise, are in place to handle this?


# Implementation

## Reward Details

[Reward Details](https://www.govtech.com/artificial-intelligence/nyc-releases-ai-action-plan-business-focused-ai-chatbot)“As a safety measure, the city ensured that with the chatbot, “any information that went into it was containerized, so that no one else would get access to it”

## Environment Details

Online, accessible via website

## Measurement Details

Total interactionsAverage chat durationGoal completion rateMissed utterancesHuman takeover rateCustomer satisfaction scoreRetention rate

## Algorithmic Details

Microsoft's Azure AI technology and OpenAI's ChatGPT chatbot framework.

## Data Flow

Microsoft Azure AI technology: Apache spark clustersOpen AI: Public data repositories, Social media, Private data collections

## Limitations

Not capable of generating answers that do not coincide with predetermined routesOnly pulls information from resources that have been deemed trusted by the NYC Department of Small Business Services.

## Engineering Tricks

Not available to the public


# Evaluation

## Evaluation Environment

Online

## Offline Evaluations

N/A

## Evaluation Validity

Designed to provide information based on trained knowledge, based on the latest updates.Does not have personal beliefs or intentions.Capable of providing information that is both true and false.Users still should cross-check information, by providing their own Google search through reputable resources.

## Performance standards

Total interactionsAverage chat durationGoal completion rateMissed utterancesHuman takeover rateCustomer satisfaction scoreRetention rate


# Maintenance

## Comments on Performance

What shifts in metrics seem most significant?

## Comments on User Feedback

What feedback is concerning or surprising?

## Recommendations

What adjustments must be made, if any, to ensure success? To whom are these recommendations made? How will these adjustments be implemented?

## Changelog

Descriptions of updates and lessons learned from observing and maintaining the deployed system. This includes when the updates were made and what motivated them in light of previous reports. The changelog comprises the central difference between reward reports and other forms of machine learning documentation, as it directly reflects their intrinsically dynamic nature.


